Feature deprecations

This article lists features that are deprecated in Dynamics 365 Field Service.

Important

"Deprecated" means Microsoft plans to remove the feature or capability in a major future release. The feature or capability continues to work and is fully supported until it's officially removed. This deprecation notification spans at least six months. After removal, the feature or capability no longer works. Microsoft is notifying you now so that you have sufficient time to plan and update your code before the feature or capability is removed.

Dynamics 365 Guides and Remote Assist applications - December 19, 2025

Dynamics 365 Guides and Remote Assist won't be available after December 31, 2026. Learn more at Dynamics 365 Guides and Remote Assist reaching end of support.

Dynamics 365 Field Service integration with finance and operations applications -  December 1, 2025

The Field Service integration with finance and operations applications won't be available after February 28, 2027. This capability is transitioning to the Field Service and Project Operations integration.

Starting with the Field Service 8.8.139.398 release, the Install Finance and Operations toggle isn't available in environments where the finance and operations integration isn't already installed or configured. Environments that already have the integration enabled retain access and can continue until February 28, 2027.

Dynamics 365 Field Service integrations with Microsoft Outlook, Teams, Viva Connections, and Planner - September 1, 2025

The following Dynamics 365 Field Service integrations are deprecated after October 30, 2025:

  Microsoft Outlook Add-in  Microsoft Teams app  Microsoft Viva Connections  Microsoft PlannerThese integrations aren't supported after October 30, 2025. Instead, look to a simpler, more integrated Field Service experience inside Microsoft 365. Learn more in Field Service release plans.

Dynamics 365 Field Service reports - May 25, 2025

The following Dynamics 365 Field Service reports are deprecated after May 25, 2025, and aren't supported after August  2025.

  Resource and Utilization in Field Service  Work order summary in Field Service  Admin Report in Resource Scheduling Optimization  Optimization Summary in Resource Scheduling Optimization  Calls Dashboard in Remote AssistTo make your transition easier, migrate to Microsoft Fabric. Microsoft Fabric lets you recreate and customize reports to fit your organization’s needs. You can tailor dashboards and keep getting insights from your data with more flexibility and power. This move gives you a more dynamic and ready-for-the-future reporting experience.

Dynamics 365 Field Service Plugin for Microsoft Copilot (Teams app) - January 15, 2025

The Dynamics 365 Field Service Plugin for Microsoft Copilot is no longer available after January 15 for users of the Field Service app in Microsoft Teams. You can use Copilot in Field Service through the side pane chat, which doesn't require extra licenses, to chat about work order information.

Dynamics 365 Field Service reports and features - September 3, 2024

The following Dynamics 365 Field Service reports and features are no longer available after November 2024.

  Predictive work duration reports (Preview)  Incident type AI suggestions  IoT alert suggestionsDynamics 365 Field Service (on-premises) - June 30, 2022

For more information about this deprecation, see this blog post.

Field Service Mobile (Xamarin) and related solutions - June 30, 2022

For more information about this deprecation, see this blog post.

Solution components related to the Field Service Mobile (Xamarin) application are also deprecated:

  msdyn_GeofenceAlerts  msdyn_FSMNotifications  Woodford | Resco MobileCRM WoodfordYou can remove these solutions from an organization that no longer uses the Field Service Mobile - Xamarin application. While removing solutions, you might encounter dependencies. The system informs you of these dependencies. Either delete the component or modify it to remove references to the solution you're trying to remove. For more information, see Removing dependencies.

When the Field Service Mobile (Xamarin) application is deprecated, drip scheduling isn't available in the Field Service mobile app. Drip scheduling controlled how many bookings appear on the Field Service mobile app at one time.

Deprecations in the scheduling solution

Learn more about deprecations in Universal Resource Scheduling.

Next steps

  Dynamics 365 Field Service version history  Submit a feature idea