Important changes (deprecations) coming in Power Apps and Power Automate

  
Article													  06/29/2023  
																	36 contributors
															FeedbackIn this article

The announcements and deprecations described in this article apply to Power Apps and Power Automate. Admins and IT professionals can use this information to prepare for future releases. This article was first published on June 27, 2017.

For deprecation information of other products, see Other deprecation articles later in this article.

Important

&quot;Deprecated&quot; means we intend to remove the feature or capability from a future release. The feature or capability will continue to work and is fully supported until it is officially removed. This deprecation notification can span a few months or years. After removal, the feature or capability will no longer work. This notice is to allow you sufficient time to plan and update your code before the feature or capability is removed.

Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets will be deprecated for online users and replaced by Power Apps

Effective January 2024, Dynamics 365 for phones and tablets (iOS and Android) will be deprecated for online users. Online users must migrate to the Power Apps mobile app. The Power Apps mobile app provides updated capabilities, a modern user experience, and fast load times.

jQuery 2.1.1 to be removed in model-driven apps

As part of a service update designed to improve security within Microsoft Power Apps we're removing jQuery version 2.1.1 from model-driven applications. In October 2023 we're removing the library located here: /_static/_common/scripts/jquery-2.1.1.min.js.

If custom code in web resources has a dependency on this library it will stop working when this library is removed. We don't support use of any model-driven application client-side code, including libraries that model-driven apps depend on. These libraries might change without warning. More information: Unsupported customizations.

Are you impacted?

To determine if you're impacted, search your web resource code for this line: /_static/_common/scripts/jquery-2.1.1.min.js.

If your code isn't already in a source code repository, you should export your solutions and extract the contents. There are many tools you may use to search the contents. For example, you can use the search capabilities of Visual Studio Code. More information: Visual Studio Code: Basic Editing &gt; Search across files

What to do if you're impacted?

If your web resources have a dependency on this library, you should replace the reference with a newer version of JQuery.

Note, there may be breaking changes between versions. For information about upgrading, see jQuery Core Upgrade Guides.

Choose one of these options:

  Create a new JavaScript web resource with the minified version of jQuery. The library is available here:   jQuery Core – All Versions  . More information:   Create or edit model-driven app web resources to extend an app  .  Locate the URL of a CDN for a newer version of jQuery. For example   jQuery-libraries-cdnjs  .Replace the reference to /_static/_common/scripts/jquery-2.1.1.min.js with the name of the web resource you created or the URL to the CDN resource with a newer version of jQuery.

AI Builder image classification model by Lobe is deprecated

Effective January 2023, the image classification model by Lobe (preview) was deprecated.

The model allowed you to quickly create and train models to classify images into different categories. This was useful for classifying objects in images, such as animals, plants, and vehicles. The deprecation of this capability was needed because the model wasn't aligned with other models in AI Builder, which offer an in-browser training and model usage experience. These other models don't require a download and install.

The impact of the deprecation of this capability is that you'll no longer be able to use the model to classify images and you won't be able to download the Lobe application. Models built with Lobe might continue to work and serve their purpose, but they won't be supported by the AI Builder team. Your Lobe installation might also continue to function, but won't be supported.

If you're impacted by the deprecation of this feature, you can use other methods to classify images, such as Azure Cognitive Services for Custom Vision. Custom Vision is a cloud-based image classification service that enables you to quickly and easily create custom image classifiers. With Custom Vision, you can upload your own images and label them with the categories you want the model to recognize. The service then uses machine learning to train a custom model that can accurately identify the categories in new images. The service also provides a range of tools to evaluate and improve your models, such as testing accuracy and providing feedback on how to improve the model. You can also create custom image classifiers that can be used for a variety of applications, such as object recognition, facial recognition, and more.

Model-driven app controls deprecation

Effective January 2023, the following controls for model-driven apps are deprecated: auto-complete, input mask, multimedia player, number input, option set, and star rating.

Why is this needed?

We'll be introducing new Fluent UI controls that have better usability, accessibility, and dark mode support.

Impact

  Starting April 2023, these controls can no longer be added to forms.  Existing control instances will work on existing forms until April 2024.Action required by you

Evaluate existing forms that include a deprecated control and replace them with a newer control.

Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connector for Power Automate flows will be deprecated and replaced with another connector

Effective October 2022, the Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connector (also referred to as the CDS 2.0 connector) is deprecated. However, this connector currently can be used to connect to Dataverse for use in multiple clients and components. Users will need to review their existing Power Automate flows to determine which ones need to be updated.

In August 2023, we'll announce a date after which no new flows can be created using the Dataverse (legacy) connector.

Customers should use the Microsoft Dataverse connector, which is available for use in Power Automate for most flow users. However, the following features aren't available currently in this connector:

  Connector actions connecting to environments other than the current environment.  When a row is selected   trigger.If you use one of the above features not available in the Dataverse connector, you won't be able to migrate until this functionality is available with an announcement due by August 2023. Otherwise, you can start migrating your flows to use the Dataverse connector in October 2022. In some cases, users will be able to use a migration tool to migrate from the Dataverse (legacy) connector to the Dataverse connector. On the detail page of each flow, you'll see the following message: Migrate this flow to the latest Microsoft Dataverse connector. You'll be able to open the migration assistant from there.

If your flow was created prior to June 2020, you won't be able to use the migration tool. To check this, you can confirm whether the Dataverse connector is searchable when editing the flow. If this is the case, or if the migration fails, you'll need to manually recreate your flow using the Dataverse connector.

In August 2023, we'll provide timelines when all existing flows using the deprecated legacy actions and triggers will stop working. Users will need to review their existing flows to update them to the new actions and triggers by the specified timeline (typically one year from the announcement date).

Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connector for Azure Logic Apps will be deprecated and replaced with another connector

Effective October 2022, the Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connector (also referred to as the CDS 2.0 connector) is deprecated. This connector currently can be used to connect to Dataverse for use in multiple clients and components. The Microsoft Dataverse connector is available for use in Azure Logic Apps starting August 2022. The Dataverse connector provides both legacy triggers and actions and new preview triggers actions for the newest connector. Dates for when previews will be GA will be provided by August 2023.

There will be a phased-in approach before deprecation takes place. Here's the timeline:

  August 30, 2022:   The actions and triggers in Dataverse legacy connector will be available in the Dataverse connector.
    Existing Dataverse Legacy connector triggers and actions can continue to be used in existing logic apps for backward compatibility for a period of time with additional timelines available in August 2023.    All new logic apps will be created using the new actions.  August 2022 through preview period:   Both new and legacy actions and triggers will be available during new flow creation. By August 2023, a date for the move to GA will be provided.  Date TBD:   No new logic apps can be created using the legacy actions and triggers, but existing logic apps with those actions and triggers will continue to work. Updates will be provided in August 2023.In August 2023, we'll provide a timeline when all existing logic apps using the deprecated legacy actions and triggers will stop working. Users will need to review their existing logic apps to update them to the new Azure Logic Apps triggers by the specified timeline (typically one year from the announcement date).

Internet Explorer 11 support for Dynamics 365 and Microsoft Power Platform is deprecated

Dynamics 365 and Microsoft Power Platform will be blocked in Internet Explorer starting October 31st. From early October 2022, users will be redirected to Microsoft Edge if they have Edge currently installed on their device.  Otherwise, they will receive a non-dismissible message informing them why they are blocked and to try using the site on Microsoft Edge. Starting October 31st, Internet Explorer will be blocked on Dynamics 365 and Microsoft Power Platform and users will see a blocking message informing them to use Microsoft Edge. If users are trying to access Dynamics 365 and Microsoft Power Platform on a Microsoft Edge version that is no longer supported, they will be prompted to use the latest version of Edge.

We recommend that customers transition to Microsoft Edge.

We recommend Dynamics 365 App for Outlook users that are using the Outlook desktop client upgrade their clients to Microsoft Outlook versions that use Edge WebView2 or  Microsoft Outlook on the web (OWA).

More information: Support end for Internet Explorer.

If you have more questions, contact your Microsoft Customer Service representative or Microsoft Partner.

The legacy read-only grid in model-driven apps is deprecated

The legacy read-only grid control has been deprecated in model-driven apps with the 2022 release wave 1. This control is being replaced by the Power Apps read-only grid, which became the default read-only grid experience for all environments for model-driven apps with the 2022 release wave 1.

Why is this needed?

The legacy read-only grid:

  Doesn't support the latest Microsoft accessibility standards.  Doesn't align with the latest in Microsoft design guidance.  Has limited extensibility options.Impact

Tables configured to use the Read-only Grid (Default) control are replaced with the Power Apps read-only grid for views and subgrids. This change started with the 2022 release wave 1.

When the Power Apps read-only grid is originally enabled, the jump bar row is not visible; however, makers can re-enable this as needed. More information: Configure the Power Apps read-only grid control

Dynamics 365 (Preview) app for Windows is deprecated

The Microsoft Dynamics 365 (Preview) app for Windows was deprecated on June 20, 2022. The app is no longer supported.

You can still run your Dynamics 365 apps on Powers Apps for Windows with the same set of features and capabilities. For more information, see Install Powers Apps for Windows.

Admin mode custom message deprecated

Effective July 1, 2022, the Custom message field is deprecated from the environment Edit details page.

Power Apps for Windows 8 will be deprecated and replaced with a new app

Effective September 2022, Power Apps for Windows 8 will be deprecated. Microsoft will continue to provide security and other critical updates for the app until Sept 20, 2022. We won't release any other features or functionalities for the app.

After Sept 20, 2022, Power Apps for Windows 8 will be removed from the Microsoft Store, and will no longer be supported.

On June 20, 2022 Power Apps for Windows will be available. For more information about the new app, see Install Powers Apps for Windows.

Data Export Service deprecation

Effective November 2021, Data Export Service was deprecated. Data Export Service will continue to work and will be fully supported until it reaches end-of-support and end-of-life in November 2022. This will impact Dynamics 365 and Power Platform customers who use Data Export Service add-on from Microsoft AppSource. The Data Export Service add-on will not be available for download for all customers. We recommend that customers transition to Azure Synapse Link for Dataverse. For more information, see our blog or download the deprecation playbook.

Dataverse OData v2.0 Service removal

We plan to remove the Organization Data Service. Any code that uses the Organization Data Service should be migrated to use the Web API before that time.

The original removal date was November 11, 2022, but this was extended to April 30, 2023. We have decided not to remove the service on April 30, 2023.

We are going to defer the removal of this service to allow people more time to complete the transition of their code to use the Web API. If you have detected that you are still using this endpoint, you must prioritize transitioning this code to use Web API so you will be prepared when the final removal date is announced.

Note

This announcement does not involve the deprecated Organization Service SOAP endpoint. At this time, no date has been announced for the removal of the SOAP endpoint.

The Organization Data Service is an OData v2.0 endpoint introduced with Dynamics CRM 2011. The Organization Data Service was deprecated with Dynamics 365 Customer Engagement v8.0 in favor of the Web API, an OData v4.0 service. Today, less than .06% of requests to Dataverse use this endpoint. Removing this endpoint will enable Dataverse to improve overall performance.

More information: OData v2.0 Service removal date announcement.

Support for Microsoft 365 Groups and Yammer in Dynamics 365 is deprecated

Effective February 2022, support for Microsoft 365 Groups (previously known as Office Groups) and Yammer in Dynamics 365 will be deprecated. This will impact customers who use Microsoft 365 Groups and/or Yammer for collaboration in Dynamics 365. We recommend that customers transition to Microsoft Teams for more advanced collaboration functionalities. For information about integrating Dynamics 365 with Teams, see Integrate customer engagement apps in Dynamics 365 with Microsoft Teams.

Existing customers can create teams from their existing Microsoft 365 Groups and map them to individual records as per the requirements. They can also continue to use Microsoft 365 Groups but have a custom experience to host it inside Dynamics 365.

If you've questions about the deprecation, contact your Microsoft Customer Service representative or Microsoft Partner.

Support for viewing and managing application users in legacy web client is deprecated

Effective February 2022, the list of &quot;Application Users&quot; will not be available under Advanced Settings &gt; Security &gt; Users. You can use the Power Platform admin center to view and manage application users. See Manage application users in the Power Platform admin center.

The Analyze section, in mobile offline profiles is deprecated

Effective September 2021, the Analyze action and the Offline profile report that is used to configure mobile offline profiles is deprecated.
The Analyze feature is being removed because of Cross-Site Scripts (XSS) vulnerabilities. The report is used to identify components that aren't available when you're working in offline mode. The capabilities will be reimagined as part of the ongoing enhancements of the mobile offline configuration experience. There's no action required by you.

Dynamics 365 - Gamification is deprecated

Effective April 1, 2021, Dynamics 365 – Gamification is deprecated. Until September 30, 2021, Microsoft provided limited support for this solution. From October 1, 2021, the Dynamics 365 – Gamification solution won't be functional. To uninstall Gamification, delete the GamificationUpdater and Gamification solutions from the Dynamics 365 organization. Note that you must first delete the GamificationUpdater solution followed by the Gamification solution. More information: Delete a preferred solution.

Skype integration with customer engagement apps is deprecated

Effective July 2019, Skype integration feature with customer engagement apps has been deprecated and is no longer supported after July 31, 2021. Skype is retired on July 31, 2021; more information: Skype for Business Online retirement - Microsoft Teams

The presence indication backed by Skype for Business will no longer function. This deprecation includes presence indication in hover cards, lookup fields, and lookup columns in grids. There are currently plans to support these locations via Teams. In the meantime, presence indication can be found in Live Person Cards.

Plan to transition to Microsoft Teams, because the Team's capabilities go beyond those of Skype for Business Online. Teams is the next chapter in enterprise communication solution from Microsoft. For more information about Teams capabilities, see The Total Economic Impact™ of Microsoft Teams.

Low-density headers in model-driven apps won't be supported with the 2021 release wave 2

With the upcoming 2021 release wave 2 (public preview in August 2021 and GA in October 2021), the low-density header option, and runtime experience won't be supported in model-driven app forms.

Why is this needed?

  Makers have moved away from low-density headers and usage is low.  Low-density headers don't promote a highly dense experience and require users to always use the flyout for all controls across view-port sizes from small to very-wide.Impact

Any current form that is configured to be &quot;low-density&quot; is automatically updated to render in a high density with flyout mode in a model driven app. Below is an example of high-density header with flyout:



Action required by you

To meet the October 2021 deadline, be sure you update any of your forms from a low-density format to a high density with flyout mode using the modern form designer. More information: Configure header density.

If you don't make this change, the form no longer honors this setting at runtime. It also defaults to high density with flyout.

Form footers in model-driven apps won't be supported with the 2021 release wave 2

With the upcoming 2021 release wave 2 (public preview in August 2021 and GA in October 2021), form footers won't be supported in a model-driven app form.

Why is this needed?

  The footer doesn't meet the Microsoft   Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0   compliance for accessibility.  Data density is highly impacted by the form footer and doesn't support a good customer experience. Controls aren't discoverable and lead to many customer usability issues.  Makers have moved away from adding controls into the footer and there's low usage of other controls, out of box or custom, in the current form footer experiences.  Components created using Power Apps component framework aren't fully compatible with form footers, which cause usability issues when added to a form footer.  Form footers aren't included in the mobile experience or on the view and dashboard pages.  This change will align the form experience with other pages in a model-driven app.Impact

Main forms will no longer include the footer when a record is opened. Any out of box or custom controls that have been added to the form footer will no longer be available and you'll need to remove the fields if they're no longer necessary or move the fields to the header and use the high-density header with flyout or add them onto the main form. The recommended approach is to move fields that users need to access regardless of the form tab a user is on to the header and set it to use the high-density header with flyout.  If there's only one tab, the recommendation is to move them into a new section on the form.

Action required by you

  To meet the October 2021 deadline, be sure you move fields or controls added to a form footer to either the header or a section on the form.  If you do nothing, the footer fields or controls that you've added no longer render on the form and aren't available to users.The out of box fields currently on the footer is removed and included on the form as part of the 2021 release wave 2 updates. So, you don't lose status, unsaved changes, or the option to open a form in a new window. The Save option is already available in the command bar and is always visible to the user.

While we understand that these types of changes can be disruptive for makers that use the footer today, we always evaluate the experiences. We do this to ensure they provide a modern experience that improves usability, support accessibility requirements, and improves discoverability for highly used fields and controls on a page.

Model-driven app controls deprecation (2021 Release Wave 1)

With the upcoming 2021 release wave 1 (public preview in February 2021 and GA in April 2021), some older controls for model-driven apps will be deprecated. These controls include Flip Switch, Calendar Control (V1), Linear Slider, Radial Knob, Arc Knob, Linear Gauge; along with the Website Preview control, MultiSelectPicklistControl (V1), and the Flip Label (two radio buttons format option).

Why is this needed?

  These controls are outdated and don't conform to our current standards for useability and accessibility.  For example, we've received feedback that the Flip Label control is difficult to determine its intended use and users commonly don't see the options available to choose from, such as &quot;yes / no&quot; or &quot;enable / disable.&quot;Impact

  Starting April 2021, these controls can no longer be added to forms.  For instances of Flip Label control, the control will be replaced with a dropdown control.  For all other controls, they'll continue to work within existing forms until April 2022.Action required by you

We won't make other changes to forms or controls.  Makers are encouraged to make updates:

  Use the Toggle control as a replacement for Flip Label and Flip Switch.  Use the Calendar Control (V2) as a replacement for Calendar Control (V1).  Evaluate other deprecated controls to determine if they're still useful within existing forms.Microsoft Dynamics 365 Email Router is deprecated

The Email Router was deprecated on July 17, 2018 and it will no longer function starting April 12, 2021. Although the Email Router might still have worked with Dynamics 365 on-premises, this configuration is no longer supported. All email routing functionality should be migrated to use server-side synchronization. For information on migrating email routing functionality to use the server-side synchronization feature, see: Migrate settings from the Email Router to server-side synchronization.

The Microsoft Dynamics 365 application for Windows is deprecated

Effective April 2021, the Microsoft Dynamics 365 app for Windows that lets you run customer engagement apps (such as Dynamics 365 Sales, Dynamics 365 Customer Service, and Dynamics 365 Marketing) has been deprecated.

Microsoft continues to provide security and other critical updates for the Microsoft Dynamics 365 app for Windows until January 29, 2021. We won't release any other features or functionalities for the app. After April 1, 2021, the app is removed from the Microsoft Store, and is no longer supported.

We recommend that you start using your web browser as soon as possible to run your customer engagement apps, such as Dynamics 365 Sales, Dynamics 365 Customer Service, and Dynamics 365 Marketing. Run them on Windows to take advantage of the ongoing improvements for the web app.

Organization data download filters for mobile offline are deprecated

Effective February 2021, Organization data download filter option that filters the data when you set up mobile offline are deprecated. We recommend that you start preparing your organization and move relevant data filters from Organization data download filter to the offline profile option, which lets you determine what data is available when users work in offline mode. For more information, see Create a mobile offline synchronization. Once the old filter criteria has been moved to offline profile, you can clear or delete the filters set in Organization data download filter.

TLS RSA cipher suites are deprecated

Effective October 30, 2020, the following cipher suites are being deprecated from our servers.

  &quot;TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384&quot;  &quot;TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256&quot;  &quot;TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256&quot;  &quot;TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256&quot;Cipher suites are used to encrypt messages to secure a network connection between clients/servers and other servers. We're removing the above list of cipher suites to comply with our current security protocols.

Beginning March 1, 2021, customers can only use our standard cipher suites. This change impacts your clients and servers that communicate with our servers, for example, syncing emails from your Microsoft Exchange server, running outbound plug-ins, using native (local) clients to access our servers.

Customers must upgrade their servers before March 1, 2021.  For more information about configuring TLS Cipher Suite order, see Manage Transport Layer Security (TLS).

Document suggestions for all entities except case are deprecated

Effective October 20, 2020, the document suggestions feature has been deprecated for all entities, except the case entity. The case entity is available with Dynamics 365 Customer Service. More information: Enable document suggestions to recommend related documents

Automatic record creation rules and SLA items in web client are deprecated

Effective October 01, 2020, the automatic record creation and update rules and service-level agreements (SLAs) have been deprecated in the web client. For more information, see Deprecations in Customer Service.

TimeZoneRule entity and some attributes of TimeZoneDefinition entity are deprecated

Effective September 24, 2020, the TimeZoneRule entity and the Bias and RetiredOrder attributes of the TimeZoneDefinition entity are deprecated and will be removed in a future release. For all client-side time zone calculations, use the LocalTimeFromUtcTime and UtcTimeFromLocalTime functions in Web API or the TimeZoneInfo class in the .NET SDK. More information: Blog: Deprecation of time zone entities in Microsoft Dataverse

Online management API PowerShell module and REST API are deprecated

Effective August 26, 2020, the online management API PowerShell module, and the underlying [Online Management REST API] are  deprecated. The online management API PowerShell module will be updated in October 2020 to point to newer underlying APIs and won't receive further updates. We recommend that you use the Power Apps administration module. More information: Get started using the Power Apps admin module

Company News Timeline solution is deprecated

Effective July 10, 2020, the Company News Timeline solution, which delivers relevant news from Bing News about customers and categorizes it in inline when you're looking at customer accounts will be deprecated. Until September 10, 2020, Microsoft will continue to provide support for the feature, but won't release any other functionality beyond what is already present. Starting September 10, 2020, you'll need to uninstall the solution, which will remove the news widget from the Account record pages.

 To remove the solution, go to  Advanced settings  and select  Solutions . Select  CompanyNewsTimeline  and then select  Delete .As an alternative you can install news Power Apps component framework control. For more information, see Set up and use the news control.

Dynamic 365 Sales bot is deprecated

Effective June 2, 2020, the Dynamics 365 Sales bot, a feature that enables users to retrieve sales information through a bot within Dynamics 365 Sales app for Teams will be deprecated. Until July 31, 2020, Microsoft will continue to provide support for the feature, but won't release any more functionality beyond what is already present.  After July 31, 2020, you'll no longer be able to receive responses to conversations. The bot won't be available for new customers; existing customers may still be able to access the bot from the Chat, however the bot won't respond to questions.

It is our goal to deliver a powerful bot experience that allows users to retrieve and manage information. Based on usage data and feedback from our customers, we'll be working on a powerful, extensible set of capabilities and features that will allow you to intuitively access and interact with sales information—among other entities—through a bot interface. we'll keep you updated on timing for when this will be available.

Dynamics 365 Connector is deprecated

Effective May 5, 2020 the Dynamics 365 connector used for data integrations, flows, Azure Logic Apps, and canvas apps is officially deprecated. We recommend that you don't create new connections using this connector.

In August 2023, we'll announce the timeline for final shutdown of the connector. This is to provide full feature parity in the replacement connector. Users will have one year from the date of announcement to move to the new connector.

Impact

As of October 31 2022, this connector is shut down for Power Automate flows and canvas apps using the Power Apps player in Windows. All flows and canvas apps must be migrated to the Microsoft Dataverse or Dataverse Legacy connector per recommended actions below.

As of October 31 2022, this connector is in the process of shutting down for Logic Apps. All Logic Apps must be migrated as soon as possible to the Microsoft Dataverse or Dataverse Legacy connector per recommended actions below.

No new connections can be created for data integrations using the Dynamics 365 connector. For these components, shut down is in progress. We recommend use of the Dynamics 365 connector be replaced with an option below as soon as possible.

This connector is shut down for new Power Automate flows; all newly created flows must use the Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connector (also referred to as the CDS 2.0 connector) or the Microsoft Dataverse connector (GA date will be provided in August 2023).

Canvas apps can no longer use the Power Apps player in Windows. All Canvas apps must migrate to the new player.

The following behaviors will be observed

Data integrator

  Dynamics 365 connector can't be selected for creating a new integration.  Editing an existing integration will not be allowed, if you attempt to edit you will be required to choose a different connector.Automate

  Dynamics 365 connector can't be selected for creating a new flow.  Existing flows will continue to run until the Microsoft Dataverse connector is available in GA (date announcement in August 2023)Logic Apps

  Dynamics 365 connector can't be selected for creating a new Logic App.  Existing Logic Apps will continue to run but must be migrated as soon as possible.  You will be able to edit an existing Logic App.Canvas apps

  The Windows Player for canvas apps will no longer be able to be used.Action required by you

Dynamics 365 connectors must be replaced with a Microsoft Dataverse connector.

  Microsoft Dataverse – This is the newest connector and will become the only connector available for Dataverse usage. This is currently in Preview with the GA date to be announced by August 2023, at that time specific date of transition will be provided. All new features, performance work, and enhancements will be available on this connector.  Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) – This is the last generation connector for Microsoft Dataverse. It will be deprecated within the same timeline as the Dynamics 365 connector. It will not receive feature or enhancement updates.Mapping of common actions

[ Action ][ Dynamics 365 ][ Dataverse Legacy ][ Microsoft Dataverse ]

[ Create Trigger ][ When a Record is Created (deprecated) ][ When a row is added ][ When a row is added, modified, or deleted ]

[ Update Trigger ][ When a Record is Updated (deprecated) ][ When a row is modified ][ When a row is added, modified, or deleted ]

[ Delete Trigger ][ When a Record is Deleted (deprecated) ][ When a row is deleted ][ When a row is added, modified, or deleted ]

[ Create Action ][ Create a new record (deprecated) ][ Add a new row (legacy) ][ Add a new row (preview) ]

[ Update Action ][ Update a record (deprecated) ][ Update a row (legacy) ][ Update a row (preview) ]

[ Delete Action ][ Delete a record (deprecated) ][ Delete a row (legacy) ][ Delete a row (preview) ]

[ Retrieve Action ][ Get record (deprecated) ][ Get row (legacy) ][ Get a row by ID (preview) ]

[ Retrieve Multiple Action ][ List records (deprecated) ][ List rows (legacy) ][ List rows (preview) ]



Recommended action by usage

Data integrator

  All new integrations should be created with the Microsoft Dataverse (Legacy) connector.  Dynamics 365 connectors should be replaced with the Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connector. The Microsoft Dataverse connector is not yet available.  Data Integrations will need to be recreated in the Data Integrator using the Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connector and then completing setup.Power Automate

  All new flows must be created with the Microsoft Dataverse connector when possible. If feature gaps such as cross environment connectivity or &quot;when a row is selected&quot; triggering is needed, the Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connector will need to be used until after August 2023.  Existing flows that use the Dynamics 365 connector will need to be re-created using Microsoft Dataverse connector (GA date will be provided in August 2023).In some cases users will be able to use a migration tool to migrate from the Dynamics 365 connector to the Microsoft Dataverse connector. You'll find the tool in Power Apps (make.powerapps.com) in the detail page of each flow. In the Flow Checker, you'll see the message &quot;Migrate this flow to the latest Microsoft Dataverse Connector&quot;. You'll be able to open the migration assistant from there. Once completed, your flow will be using the Microsoft Dataverse connector.

This should migrate your flow unless:

  Flow is in the old format. To check this, the customer can confirm whether the Microsoft Dataverse connector is searchable when editing the flow. Most flows created before June 2020 are in the older format.

  Flow has legacy actions connecting to environments other than the current environment.

  If your flow falls into one of the categories above or if the migration fails, you'll need to manually recreate your flow using the Dataverse Legacy Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connector.

Logic Apps

  All new Logic Apps should be created with the Microsoft Dataverse connector. This connector includes legacy actions, and preview actions. Legacy actions are in GA. The preview action GA date will be announced in August 2023.  Logic Apps using the Dynamics 365 connector are recommended to move to the Microsoft Dataverse (legacy) connector until the Microsoft Dataverse connector is available.  Logic Apps will either need to be recreated to use the Microsoft Dataverse connector or be edited to change the Dynamics 365 connector to the Microsoft Dataverse connector and then validating all triggers and actions.Canvas apps

  If you are using the Power Apps Player to launch Power Apps in Windows, you will need to switch over to Power Apps for Windows.AI Builder text classification models are deprecated

Effective April 24, 2020, any text classification models created using AI Builder before this date will be deprecated. Until May 15, 2020, these models will continue to function, and Microsoft will continue to provide support, however some functionality may be disabled. After May 15, 2020, these models will no longer work.

Beginning April 24, 2020, customers will need to recreate their existing text classification models with the new model versions. Any models created after this date will automatically use the new model versions and require no further action.

After April 24, 2020, customers are encouraged to transition to the new model versions as soon as possible.

Dynamic 365 for Outlook is deprecated

Effective March 2020, the legacy Dynamics 365 for Outlook (also referred to as Outlook COM add-in) was deprecated, and is no longer available for customer engagement apps (Dynamics 365 Sales, Customer Service, Marketing, and Field Service). Use the modern Dynamics 365 App for Outlook instead.

Dynamics 365 Customer Engagement (on-premises) users can continue to use the legacy Dynamics 365 for Outlook. However, we recommend that you transition to the modern Dynamics 365 App for Outlook at the earliest. For information and steps to make a smooth transition, download Dynamics 365 for Outlook (COM add-in) Playbook.

Dynamics 365 Home is deprecated

Effective March 2020, the home page for Dynamics 365 applications (https://home.dynamics.com) is deprecated and won't be available on or after June 30, 2021. The Microsoft 365 apps page (https://www.office.com/apps) will replace it and provide users with a single page for productivity and business applications.

Dynamics 365 Home users will see notification about the new location and recommendation to change browser bookmarks starting October 1, 2020. On or after June 30, 2021, users will no longer be able to navigate to https://home.dynamics.com from the Office 365 applications list or the Office 365 application launcher. After June 2021, users who navigate to https://home.dynamics.com will see an error page.

More information: https://aka.ms/business-apps-discovery-docs

Form processing and object detection preview models in AI Builder are deprecated

Effective March 5, 2020, any form processing and object detection models created using AI Builder before this date will be deprecated. Until June 8, 2020, these models will continue to function, and Microsoft will continue to provide support, however some functionality may be disabled. After June 8, 2020, these models will no longer work.

Beginning March 5, 2020, customers will need to recreate their existing form processing and object detection models with the new model versions. Any models created after this date will automatically use the new model versions and require no further action.

After March 5, 2020, customers are encouraged to transition to the new model versions as soon as possible.

More information:

  Transition to use a new form processing model version  Transition to use a new object detection model versionOld Dataverse environment URL redirector service is deprecated

When you access your Dataverse environment for the first time or every time after you have signed out from a prior session, you are directed to Azure AD for signing in. In the sign-in page URL, it contains a set of internal values/codes that include a link to the URL redirector service. Upon successful login, the URL redirector service directs you to your Dataverse environment.

The old URL redirector service, cloudredirector.crm.dynamics.com, was replaced in September 2019 with the new one, bn1--namcrlivesg614.crm.dynamics.com (just an example; the URL will differ based on your environment region). The old URL redirector service is deprecated, and will be removed on March 31, 2020.

This change will impact you if you have created a bookmark of the sign-in page before September 2019 that contained the link to the old URL redirector service. The users impacted by this change will see a notification staring February 17, 2020 with instructions to resolve the issue. For detailed information about this issue and how to resolve it, see https://support.microsoft.com/help/4541747.

Deprecation of Office365 authentication type and OrganizationServiceProxy class for connecting to Dataverse

Effective February 4, 2020, the WS-Trust authentication type that is used by
custom clients to connect to Dataverse is deprecated. This change
affects applications that utilize
Microsoft.Xrm.Sdk.Client.OrganizationServiceProxy
and
Microsoft.Xrm.Tooling.Connector.CrmServiceClient
classes for the authentication type of &quot;Office365&quot;.

We are making this change to remove a security protocol (WS-Trust) that is
inherently insecure by current encryption standards. While Microsoft has worked
hard to protect users who choose to use this authentication type for
the convenience of login process, it has become an increasing source of concern
for Microsoft security and identity protection systems. The WS-Trust security
protocol, when used in conjunction with a user account and password, implements
an authentication flow that presents both the user ID and password to the
authenticating resource in 'clear text' form, relying solely on the transport
encryption to provide security for the initial leg of the authentication, until
such point as the token service returns an authentication token to use.
Additionally, the WS-Trust protocol does not support modern forms of
Multi-Factor Authentication and conditional access controls to customer data.

With this change, the intent is to guide developers away from this
authentication flow and help application developers to utilize the capabilities
of Azure Active Directory to secure and protect access to their applications and
customers in Dataverse.

To allow for transition of customers and partner applications:

  Effective October 2020, the authentication protocol will be retired for all new tenants.  Effective October 2020, the authentication protocol won't be available in all new   regions  .  Effective April 2021  1  , the authentication protocol will be retired for all new environments within a tenant.  Effective April 2022, the authentication protocol will be retired for all new and existing environments within a tenant.1The retirement of new environments starts April 1, 2021 and rolls out gradually in all regions within a 6-week window.

More information: Use of Office365 authentication with the WS-Trust security protocol

Regional Discovery Service is deprecated

Effective March 2, 2020, the regionalDiscovery Service is deprecated. Microsoft will continue to provide support, security, and other critical updates for the regional Discovery Service, but won't release any more functionality beyond what has already been announced. After April 21, 2021, the regional Discovery Service will be shut down.

Customers must transition to using the global OData V4 Discovery Service before April 21, 2021 so their applications aren't impacted. More information: Modify your code to use global Discovery Service.

Legacy web client is deprecated

As of September 2019, the legacy web client is deprecated. Customers must transition to Unified Interface before December 4, 2020. Microsoft will continue to provide support, security, and other critical updates to the legacy web client until December 4, 2020 but won't release any more functionality beyond what has already been announced.

On December 4, 2020, the legacy web client will no longer be available. Organizations should make the transition to Unified Interface as soon as possible to take advantage of Microsoft's ongoing investments in reliability, performance, and functionality.

In the coming months, for those that have not already made the transition, we will be sending reminders and scheduling updates to transition customers to Unified Interface prior to December 4, 2020.
For more information and steps to make a smooth transition, see:

  Unified Interface Community
Group   including a
Blog and Forum

  Getting Started Unified Interface
Playbook

  User Experience and Unified Interface transition
whitepaper

  Quick Start Guide – add Unified Interface App to existing
environment

  Quick Start Guide – set an environment to Unified Interface as
default

Task flows are deprecated

Task flows are used to create a step-by-step data entry form for common tasks, such as after-meeting follow-ups.

Task flows are deprecated and will be removed by October 1, 2021. They will be replaced by the immersive experience for business process flows that is planned for release. More information: Business process flow immersive experiences

Process Dialogs are deprecated

You can use a process dialog to create an interactive step-by-step data entry form that requires user input to start and run to completion. When you start the dialog process, a wizard-like interface is presented; users make selections or enter data as they progress through each page of the wizard.

Process dialogs are deprecated and will be removed by December 1, 2020. Suggested replacement options include Business Process Flows or Canvas Apps. More information: Replace dialogs with business process flows or canvas apps

Legacy process-related attributes in entities are deprecated

The legacy process-related attributes (such as StageId, and TraversedPath) on entities enabled for business process flows are now deprecated. The SetProcess action for business process flows is also deprecated. Manipulating these legacy process-related attributes for target entity records does not guarantee consistency of the business process flow state, and isn't a supported scenario. The recommended way is to use the attributes of the business process flow entity. More information: Create, retrieve, update, and delete business process flow entity records

Some client APIs are deprecated

The following client APIs are deprecated to reorganize the Xrm client API object model to better align with the need of using the same
client scripts without having to change them based on the context or the client
(web client or the new Unified Interface) where they run. You should plan to use
the new client APIs mentioned in the Replacement Client API column instead
of the deprecated ones. The deprecated client APIs will continue to be available
and supported until they are officially removed from a future major release. A public announcement here in the documentation, on the Dynamics 365 blog, and in many other places will be made at least six months before removal.

[ Deprecated Client API ][ Replacement Client API ][ Comments ]

[ Xrm.Page ][ Forms: ExecutionContext.getFormContext  Commands: Send it as the PrimaryControl parameter ][ Use of the Xrm.Page object as a static access to the primary form context is still supported to maintain backward compatibility with the existing scripts. Based on the feedback, we understand that the usage of Xrm.Page is high, and it won't be removed as soon as some other client API methods listed in this section. We encourage you to use the new way of getting form content where possible. More information: Client API form contextAlthough Xrm.Page is deprecated, parent.Xrm.Page will continue to work in case of HTML web resources embedded in forms as this is the only way to access the form context from the HTML web resource. ]

[ Xrm.Page.context ][ Xrm.Utility.getGlobalContext ][ Allows access to the global context without going through the form context. ]

[ Xrm.Page.context.getQueryStringParameters ][ formContext.data.attributes ][ The formContext.data.attributes API will make retrieval of non-entity bound data consistent across entity forms, metadata-driven dialogs, and task-based flows. The data will be a combination of custom values sent using the query string and what was specified in the parameters in the openForm method. ]

[ Xrm.Page.context.getTimeZoneOffsetMinutes ][ globalContext.userSettings.getTimeZoneOffsetMinutes ][ Moved to globalContext.userSettings ]

[ Xrm.Page.context.getUserId ][ globalContext.userSettings.userId ][ Moved to globalContext.userSettings ]

[ Xrm.Page.context.getUserLcid ][ globalContext.userSettings.languageId ][ Moved to globalContext.userSettings ]

[ Xrm.Page.context.getUserName ][ globalContext.userSettings.userName ][ Moved to globalContext.userSettings ]

[ Xrm.Page.context.getUserRoles ][ globalContext.userSettings.securityRoles ][ Moved to globalContext.userSettings ]

[ Xrm.Page.context.getIsAutoSaveEnabled ][ globalContext.organizationSettings.isAutoSaveEnabled ][ Moved to globalContext.organizationSettings ]

[ Xrm.Page.context.getOrgLcid ][ globalContext.organizationSettings.languageId ][ Moved to globalContext.organizationSettings ]

[ Xrm.Page.context.getOrgUniqueName ][ globalContext.organizationSettings.uniqueName ][ Moved to globalContext.organizationSettings ]

[ Xrm.Page.data.entity.getDataXml ][ No change in the method, but use &quot;typename&quot; instead of type for lookup attributes. ][  ]

[ GridRow.getData ][ GridRow.data ][ GridRow is essentially a form context. This change unifies the interface of GridRow with formContext. ]

[ GridRowData.getEntity  ][ GridRowData.entity ][ GridRowData is form data. This change unifies the interface of GridRowData with formContextData. ]

[ Xrm.Mobile.offline ][ Xrm.WebApi.offline ][ Moved the offline-related methods under Xrm.WebApi.offline ]

[ parent.Xrm ][ Use one of the following: a) Use a custom control created using Power Apps component framework instead of HTML web resources.b) On forms, use the getContentWindow method of the web resource control.c) If the getContentWindow method doesn't work, you can use parent.Xrm to get to the Xrm object inside an HTML web resource. If the HTML web resource is opened in a new window, then you should use opener.Xrm instead. ][ Earlier: An HTML web resource may interact with the Xrm.Page or Xrm.Utility objects within the form by using parent.Xrm.Page or parent.Xrm.Utility. Now: parent.Xrm.* will work if the HTML web resource is loaded in a form container. It won't work for HTML web resources that are stand alone, or referenced from the site map or any other places. ]

[ addOnKeyPress ][ Use a custom control created using Power Apps component framework ][  ]

[ fireOnKeyPress ][ Use a custom control created using Power Apps component framework ][  ]

[ removeOnKeyPress ][ Use a custom control created using Power Apps component framework ][  ]

[ showAutoComplete ][ Use a custom control created using Power Apps component framework ][  ]

[ hideAutoComplete ][ Use a custom control created using Power Apps component framework ][  ]

[ Xrm.Utility.alertDialog  ][ Xrm.Navigation.openAlertDialog ][ The new signature is consistent with other APIs (openForm) and takes a new set of parameters for flexibility. ]

[ Xrm.Utility.confirmDialog ][ Xrm.Navigation.openConfirmDialog ][ The new signature is consistent with other APIs (openForm) and takes a new set of parameters for flexibility. ]

[ Xrm.Utility.getBarcodeValue ][ Xrm.Device.getBarcodeValue ][ Moving device-related actions to Xrm.Device ]

[ Xrm.Utility.getCurrentPosition ][ Xrm.Device.getCurrentPosition ][ Moving device-related actions to Xrm.Device ]

[ Xrm.Utility.isActivityType ][ Xrm.Utility.getEntityMetadata ][ The isActivityType method is synchronous so it was suitable for ribbon rules. However, the replacement method, getEntityMetadata, is asynchronous, and isn't suitable for ribbon rules. ]

[ Xrm.Utility.openEntityForm  ][ Xrm.Navigation.openForm ][ Moving navigation actions to Xrm.Navigation ]

[ Xrm.Utility.openQuickCreate ][ Xrm.Navigation.openForm ][ Moving navigation actions to Xrm.Navigation ]

[ Xrm.Utility.openWebResource ][ Xrm.Navigation.openWebResource ][ Moving navigation actions to Xrm.Navigation  Note: This API returns VOID in Unified Interface. ]

[ globalContext.organizationSettings.baseCurrencyId ][ globalContext.organizationSettings.baseCurrency ][ The replacement method lets you access the display name along with the ID of transaction currency. ]

[ globalContext.userSettings.securityRoles ][ globalContext.userSettings.roles ][ The replacement method lets you access the display name along with the ID of the security roles. ]

[ globalContext.userSettings.transactionCurrencyId ][ globalContext.userSettings.transactionCurrency ][ The replacement method lets you access the display name along with the ID of transaction currency. ]

[ getData and setData for Silverlight web resources ][ None ][ Silverlight is no longer supported. These methods won't be available after October 2020. ]

[ formContext.data.entity.save ][ formContext.data.save ][  ]

[ getObject ][ getContentWindow ][  ]



For information about the new client APIs, see Apply business logic using client scripting in model-driven apps using JavaScript

EntityMetadata.IsInteractionCentricEnabled property is deprecated

All entities supported in Unified Interface are now enabled for the interactive experience in the new Customer Service Hub app. This implies that
the EntityMetadata.IsInteractionCentricEnabled
property, which indicates whether an entity can be enabled for interactive experience, is no longer relevant. The corresponding setting for this property
in the Customization tool, Enable for interactive experience, is removed, and the
EntityMetadata.IsInteractionCentricEnabled property will be removed from the future version.

Voice of the Customer is deprecated

The Voice of the Customer solution is used to create and send surveys for collecting feedback.

As of July 1, 2019, the Voice of the Customer solution is deprecated. Users can create and distribute new surveys and collect responses from live surveys until July 1, 2020.

A new solution, Dynamics 365 Customer Voice, is generally available to capture customer feedback using surveys. Customers can learn more about Customer Voice here.

Dynamics 365 for Blackberry is deprecated

As of December 3, 2018, Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Blackberry App is deprecated and will be removed from the iOS App Store on October 31, 2019. The mobile app is currently available on the iOS App Store and is designed for Dynamics 365 customers that utilize Blackberry Mobile Application Management. See more details about the Dynamics 365 for Blackberry app here: Secure your mobile data with Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Good. After October 31, 2019, Microsoft Intune will be the only supported mobile application management solution for the Dynamics 365 for phones application.

Microsoft will continue to provide security and other critical updates to the Dynamics 365 for Blackberry App until October 31, 2019, but won't release any more features or functionalities within the app. After October 31, 2019, the Dynamics 365 for Blackberry App will be removed from the App Store, and support will end.

What should you do?

If you are currently using the Dynamics 365 for Blackberry App together with Mobile Application Management for Blackberry, plan to migrate to Dynamics 365 for phones by October 31, 2019. We encourage you to migrate as soon as possible to take advantage of Microsoft's ongoing investments in the reliability, performance, and functionality of the Dynamics 365 mobile app.

Usage of Parature knowledgebase as the knowledge management solution is deprecated

Usage of Parature knowledgebase as the knowledge
management solution is deprecated. This feature is replaced by Knowledge
Management features in Dynamics 365 Customer Service.

The Knowledge Solution setting in the Knowledge Base Management Settings
dialog box, which provides a connection to Pasture will be removed in a future major release.



Project Service Finder app is deprecated

The Project Service Finder App, available for use with Dynamics 365 Project Service Automation, is deprecated. The legacy application will be supported for
associated legacy Project Service Automation releases in accordance with
Microsoft's Modern Lifecycle
Policy. The functionality
available through this app will be available in a future release of Dynamics 365 Project Service Automation application.

Relationship Roles are deprecated

Relationship Roles (Settings &gt; Business Management &gt; Relationship Roles) are
being deprecated along with their user interface components. These will be removed in a future major release.
This feature is replaced by Connection Roles. More information: Create connections to view relationships between
records.

Mail Merge is deprecated

In Dynamics CRM 2016 (version 8.0), we introduced server-side document
generation using Word and Excel templates. You can use these templates to
provide standardized documents or customized data analysis for your
organization.

Mail merge from previous versions is deprecated. This includes the mail-merge
Word add-in and mail-merge templates (Settings &gt; Templates &gt; Mail Merge
Templates).

More information: Create Word and Excel templates

Announcements are deprecated

Announcements (Settings &gt; Administration &gt; Announcements) are deprecated and
will be removed in a future major release.

Ready-to-use business processes available through Add Ready to Use Business Processes setting are deprecated

Ready-to-use business processes available through the Add Ready-to-Use Business
Processes setting (Settings &gt; Data Management &gt; Add Ready-to-Use Business
Processes) are deprecated and will be removed in a future major release. You can find ready-to-use business processes on Microsoft AppSource.

Silverlight (XAP) web resource is deprecated 

The Silverlight (XAP) web resource is deprecated on the web client, and isn't
supported on Unified Interface. Instead of Silverlight web resources, you must use custom
controls created using the HTML web resources
with HTML5 to create UI components to visualize and interact with data.

Gateways for desktop flows are deprecated

Gateways for desktop flows are deprecated. Direct connectivity is the preferred option to run attended and unattended desktop flows on your machine(s). This feature is no longer supported from June 30th, 2023, and for China regions from September 30th, 2023. Switch to our machine-management capabilities. Learn more about switching from gateways to direct connectivity.

Canvas apps

See Important upcoming changes and deprecations in canvas apps.

Power Apps portals

See Important changes coming in Power Apps portals.

Other deprecation articles

Deprecated features in Dynamics 365 Sales

Deprecated features in Dynamics 365 Customer Service

Deprecated features in Dynamics 365 Field Service

Deprecated features in Universal Resource Scheduling

Removed or deprecated features in Finance and Operations apps



