Important upcoming changes and deprecations in Power Pages

  Article  06/26/2024  9 contributorsFeedbackIn this article

The announcements for changes and deprecations described in this article apply to Power Pages. Makers, developers, and IT pros can use this information to prepare for future releases.

Important

Deprecated means that we intend to remove the feature or capability from a future major release. The feature or capability will continue to work and is fully supported until it's officially removed. This deprecation notification can span a few months or years. After it's removal, the feature or capability no longer work. This notice is to allow you sufficient time to plan and update your code before the feature or capability is removed.

Enhanced link creation in design studio

In July 2024, we're introducing improvements to the way text, image, and button links are created in Power Pages design studio. The Link to a URL field will accept any type of link, including mailto and tel links. Additionally, there will be a new option to choose whether the link opens in a new window or the current one.

We'll also change the way button components are created. Previously, buttons were represented using the &lt;button&gt; HTML tag with URLs handled by the onclick attribute: 

&lt;button onclick="window.location.href='/page/subpage-1/'" type="button" value="subpage-1" class="button1"&gt;Add a call to action here&lt;/button&gt;

With the upcoming improvements, all new button components are created using the &lt;a&gt; anchor tag, with the href attribute responsible for URL navigation. Any &lt;a&gt; tag with the btn class are recognized as a button component in design studio:

&lt;a href="/page/subpage-1/" class="btn button1"&gt;Add a call to action here&lt;/a&gt;

This change only applies to new buttons. Buttons that were previously created aren't impacted and continue to work in design studio. However, you might need to adjust any custom CSS or JavaScript that uses the &lt;button&gt; tag for selection.

Power Apps portals Studio to be retired

Effective February 26, 2024, Power Apps portals Studio will be retired. All sites open in Power Pages design studio.

What is Power Apps portals Studio?

Power Apps portals Studio is the legacy experience of Power Pages design studio.

Will I lose access to all portals and websites I created in Power Apps portals Studio?

No. You can continue to access and edit all of the sites you created through Power Apps portals Studio, you'll just access them from Power Pages. More information: Manage sites

Site creation from Power Apps

Starting September 2023, blank app portal creation from Power Apps will be redirected to Power Pages.

Why can't I create a portal from Power Apps?

As part of providing a streamlined and improved experience for makers to create a website, all the site creation experience is now provided through Power Pages. You can create secure, enterprise-grade, low-code business websites with Power Pages. More information: Create a site with Power Pages

Why don't I see Dynamics 365 portal templates in Power Apps?

You can create websites using the Dynamics 365 templates from Power Pages. More information: Dynamics 365 templates

Why don't I see Dynamics 365 portal templates in Power Pages?

If you're using Power Pages for the first time, you won't see Dynamics 365 portals in your first site creation. You'll see them in subsequent sites created, if the environment has any of the Dynamics 365 applications installed in it.

Why don't I see my Portals created in Power Apps under the Apps list in Portals Studio?

Starting October 2023, portals created in Power Apps portals will show in Power Pages, More information: Manage sites created in Power Apps

Power Apps portals admin center

The Power Apps portals admin center is now deprecated and no longer available as of June 2023. Use the new Power Pages admin hub in the Power Platform admin center.

Controlling site visibility changes in Power Pages

Starting October 2022 with website version 9.4.9.xx, any new site created in Power Pages or Power Apps portals will be private by default. Only makers or people in the organization granted permission by makers will have website access, making Power Pages sites secure. This feature provides another layer of security using Microsoft Entra authentication to prevent accidental leaks of partially developed website data and design. When a website is ready to go-live, the site visibility can be changed to public making it accessible to everyone over the internet anonymously or secured with identity providers.

At launch, users with the system administrator role along with service admins will by default have privilege to change site visibility status (private to public or vice versa).

Note

After October 1, 2023 system administrators will not be able to change site visibility when the tenant-level setting is null.  To prevent this, set the value for the tenant level setting to either TRUE or FALSE. More information: Change tenant-level setting

OAuth 2.0 implicit grant flow within your portal

The authorize endpoint, token endpoint using GET request, and using the default certificate for OAuth 2.0 implicit grant flow is deprecated. No action is needed for newly created portals or for existing portals that don't use this feature. If you're already using this feature, you need to use the token endpoint POST request to get a secure access token to authorize the external APIs.

Note

  All existing customers who are using this deprecated feature need to migrate to the supported method by October 2022.  For more information on using a custom certificate, go to   Using a custom certificate  .  For sample code on using POST calls on the Token endpoint, go to   Token endpoint sample  .List OData feed

Starting June 2022, using OData feeds to interact with data via RESTful web services will be deprecated. We recommend that you migrate to the Power Pages Web API.

Note

  Starting October 2022, newly provisioned websites won't able to use list OData features.  The OData feeds list feature will be removed April 1, 2024.Portal content editor

Starting June 2022, the portal content editor tool to design your website is deprecated. We recommend using Power Apps portals Studio to edit the portal.

Note

This feature will be removed by October 1, 2023.

Portals search using Lucene.NET search

Starting with website version 9.4.4.xx, portal search uses Dataverse search as a default search provider for all new portals. Lucene.NET search is deprecated; however, existing portals that use Lucene.NET search won't be affected. We recommend that users migrate to Dataverse search. Enable Dataverse search for existing portal by setting the Search/EnableDataverseSearch site setting to true.

Note

All existing customers who use Lucene.NET search must migrate to Dataverse search by October 1, 2024.

Content Delivery Network for US Government

Starting January 2022, Power Apps portals for US Government will begin using Azure Content Delivery Network for default JavaScript and CSS files. Depending on the US Government deployment, configure the allowlist for the following Content Delivery Network URLs as follows.

[ Power Pages version ][ Content Delivery Network URL ]

[ Government Community Cloud (GCC) ][ https://gov.content.powerapps.us ]

[ GCC High ][ https://high.content.powerapps.us ]

[ Power Apps Department of Defense ][ https://content.appsplatform.us ]



Table permission changes for forms and lists on new websites

Starting with release 9.3.7.x, newly created websites will have table permissions enforced for all forms and lists, irrespective of the Enable Table Permissions setting.

Also, with the same release, lists on all websites (new or existing) that have list OData feeds enabled will require that the appropriate table permissions be set up for the feed on these lists to work.

Note

The changes described above also apply to websites converted from trial to production.

To configure anonymous access explicitly, use proper table permissions and web role set up instead.

SameSite mode changes

Starting with Power Pages version 9.3.6.x, makers can mark SameSite mode as Strict for all portal cookies where applicable.

With this change, we're adding a new website setting to control the SameSite mode for all cookies, configurable to the level of specific cookies.

[ Site setting name ][ Scope ][ Possible value ]

[ HTTP/SameSite/Default ][ Global, for all cookies. ][ None  Lax  Strict ]

[ HTTP/SameSite/{CookieName} ][ Specific cookie. ][ None  Lax  Strict ]



The default value for all existing and newly provisioned websites is None.

To learn how to configure site settings for websites, go to Configure site settings for portals.

Tracking for webpage, and web file

Starting with portals version 9.3.4.x, the following functionality has been retired:

  Webpage tracking  Web file trackingSee also

Important changes (deprecations) coming in Power Apps, Power Automate, and customer engagement apps

